CALL FOR PAPERS

                     DYNAMIC OBJECTS WORKSHOP

                        At Object World East 

                           May 5-9, 1996

                  Boston's Hynes Convention Center


Attention authors and potential authors of papers on the use of Dynamic
Languages: proven and new languages providing full support for Dynamic
Objects and/or Late Binding functionalities.

The Dynamic Objects Workshop is a forum for technical presentations
and discussions of innovative and practical applications of dynamic
objects and late binding techniques to software systems design and
implementation.  We are looking for concrete, practical papers presenting
issues of importance to those who build or intend to build commercial
business and engineering applications that take advantage of these emerging
software technologies.

This is a chance to share your success stories, discuss your techniques,
or even document technical and social obstacles you are facing.  The
workshop brings together experts who are dedicated to make dynamic objects
and late binding approaches to software development succeed in the
marketplace, and there is no better forum for you to engage in a public
dialog on the use of Dynamic Objects and Late Binding languages today.

The DOW96 workshop also replaces the traditional LUV conference technical
presentation sessions [http://www.cs.rochester.edu/u/miller/alu.html],
and features a STUDENT SUBMISSION CONTEST. DOW96 is offered as part of
the Dynamic Objects Event [http://www.omg.org/ow/cbcoloc.htm], a new event
collocated with Object World East [http://www.omg.org/ow/cbcover.htm].

                           - - - - - - - - - -


SCOPE AND CONTENT.  Material in papers must clearly demonstrate a
 practical value from the use of dynamic objects and/or late bindings;
 as such, papers need not be especially innovative or original.  Direct 
 and simple applications of dynamic language features to rapidly and
 effectively solve practical problems will be noticed. Preference will
 be given to previously undisseminated reports or experiences. Topics in
 the area of programming languages and environments are welcome. These
 include programming with multiple paradigms, generation of domain specific
 languages, integration with foreign languages, objects distribution,
 distributed objects recycling, persistent object storages and databases.

 Specific application examples are welcome including issues on software
 design and architecture, product delivery, realtime, small platforms, 
 graphical user interfaces, interface builders, CLIM and portability.
 Untested or purely theoretical examples must clearly demonstrate advantages
 of one or more specific aspects of dynamism to solve otherwise untractable
 problems (for example, use of dynamic updates to class hierarchies and
 dynamic changes to multimethods to adapt to evolving exchange protocols
 in live distributed systems, distributed objects recycling approaches
 applied to improve software reliability in distributed systems).

SUBMISSIONS.  Authors should submit an electronic copy of their paper
 submission (position paper) not later than FRIDAY MARCH 22 1996, including
 the subject line: "DOW96 SUBMISSION", addressed to:

         DOW96@IEXIST.ATT.COM

 or, THREE (3) printed copies of their paper submission to DOW96 at
 the following address (must be received on or before FRIDAY MARCH 22
 1996):

         DOW96 SUBMISSION, Room 4F-413
         Att: O.B. Clarisse
         Lucent Technologies/AT&T Bell Laboratories
         2000 N Naperville Rd
         Naperville, Il 60566

FORMATS.  Accepted electronic format for first submission: ASCII text,
 HTML, or PostScript*. Accepted electronic format for final submission:
 printable PostScript* only, printed paper submission must be received
 on or before the due date.

 The length of the written papers should be between 3 and 10 pages
 (font size 10pt or 12pt).  The printed format must be full page or
 two columns.  The title, authors, affiliations, and contacting
 informations must be clearly visible, and centered at the top of the
 first page.  All pages (text, figures, and references) must be numbered
 from 1 to N (<= 3 N 10). Printed paper submissions must include an
 electronic mail address, a return postal address, and a telephone number.

STUDENT PAPERS CONTEST.  Students gain free access to the Dynamic
 Objects Workshop (DOW96 sessions) using provided Exhibits passes.
 There will be a selection of Student papers. Submission and acceptance
 dates, as well as acceptable themes, are the same as for other authors.
 Accepted papers will appear in the written proceedings (please see
 following instructions regarding copyright and permission to publish
 requirements).  The best student paper will be nominated.

DEADLINES.  Please mark your calendar with the following dates:
  22 MARCH 96  Deadline for receipt of position papers.
  24 APRIL 96  Deadline for receipt of final copy of accepted papers.

ACCEPTANCE NOTIFICATIONS.
  29 MARCH 96  Early acceptance notification. Early registration deadline.
  12 APRIL 96  Final acceptance and corrections notification.
 
COPYRIGHT.  Authors of accepted papers will be required to sign a release 
 for publication in the workshop proceedings. Authors may retain the
 copyright themselves if they wish by installing their own copyright
 notice in the paper. Previously copyrighted material may still be
 published depending on the permission to publish; in this case, the
 previous copyright and notice of permission should appear in the paper.
 
PRESENTATION OF ACCEPTED PAPERS.  Accepted papers will appear in the
 written proceedings, which will be available at the workshop and might
 or might not also be distributed in some other fashion after the workshop.
 The authors of certain selected papers will be invited to make a
 20-minute verbal presentation at the technical talks sessions during 
 the workshop.  (Time constraints might prevent the verbal presentation
 of some accepted papers.)

DOW96 SESSIONS.  Three workshop sessions are scheduled as part of the
 Dynamic Objects Event collocated with Object World East:
   
 Sunday May                     55:15 - 6:30 p.m.
 Wednesday May 8                6:00 - 7:30 p.m.
 Thursday May 9                 6:00 - 7:30 p.m.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.  For further information about paper submission,
 please contact DOW96:

         DOW96@IEXIST.ATT.COM

 For further information about the Dynamic Objects Event, see:

         http://www.omg.org/ow/cbcoloc.htm

 For information and registration to Object World East in Boston, see:

         http://www.omg.org/ow/cbcover.htm

PLEASE POST, DISTRIBUTE WIDELY, AND LINK AT YOUR WEB SITES.
